<!DOCTYPE html><html lang="en">
<head>
<title>SafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes &lt; GraphicsWorkingGroup &lt; Foswiki</title>
<meta http-equiv="X-UA-Compatible" content="IE=edge" />
<meta charset="utf-8" />
<meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1, maximum-scale=1.5, user-scalable=yes" />
<meta name="mobile-web-app-capable" content="yes" />
<meta name="mobile-web-app-status-bar-style" content="black-translucent" />
<meta name="apple-mobile-web-app-capable" content="yes" />
<meta name="apple-mobile-web-app-status-bar-style" content="black-translucent" />
<link rel="icon" href="../MISSING RESOURCE GraphicsWorkingGroup/SafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes/favicon.ico" type="image/x-icon"> <link href="../MISSING RESOURCE GraphicsWorkingGroup/SafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes/favicon.ico" rel="shortcut icon" type="image/x-icon">
<link type="application/x-wiki" href="SafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes.html" rel="alternate" title="edit SafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes">
<meta name="description" content="SafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes" />
<link type="text/css" media="all" class="head JQUERYPLUGIN::TWISTY" rel="stylesheet" href="../System/TwistyPlugin.attachments/twisty.css?version=1.6.0"><!--JQUERYPLUGIN::TWISTY: requires= missing ids: JavascriptFiles/foswikiPref-->
<link media="all" rel="stylesheet" class="head SMILIESPLUGIN" href="../System/SmiliesPlugin.attachments/smilies.css" type="text/css"><!--SMILIESPLUGIN-->
<style class='head TABLEPLUGIN_default' type="text/css" media="all">
body .foswikiTable {border-width:1px}
body .foswikiTable .tableSortIcon img {padding-left:.3em; vertical-align:text-bottom}
body .foswikiTable td {border-style:solid none; vertical-align:top}
body .foswikiTable th {border-style:none solid; vertical-align:top; background-color:#d6d3cf; color:#000000}
body .foswikiTable th a:link {color:#000000}
body .foswikiTable th a:visited {color:#000000}
body .foswikiTable th a:hover {color:#000000; background-color:#d6d3cf}
body .foswikiTable th.foswikiSortedCol {background-color:#c4c1ba}
body .foswikiTable tr.foswikiTableRowdataBg0 td {background-color:#ffffff}
body .foswikiTable tr.foswikiTableRowdataBg0 td.foswikiSortedCol {background-color:#f7f7f6}
body .foswikiTable tr.foswikiTableRowdataBg1 td {background-color:#f7f7f6}
body .foswikiTable tr.foswikiTableRowdataBg1 td.foswikiSortedCol {background-color:#f0f0ee}
</style><!--TABLEPLUGIN_default-->
<style class='head TABLEPLUGIN_specific' type="text/css" media="all">
body .foswikiTable#tableSafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes6 td {vertical-align:middle; vertical-align:top}
body .foswikiTable#tableSafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes6 td.foswikiTableCol0 {text-align:left}
body .foswikiTable#tableSafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes6 td.foswikiTableCol1 {text-align:left}
body .foswikiTable#tableSafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes6 td.foswikiTableCol2 {text-align:left}
body .foswikiTable#tableSafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes6 td.foswikiTableCol3 {text-align:right}
body .foswikiTable#tableSafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes6 td.foswikiTableCol4 {text-align:left}
body .foswikiTable#tableSafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes6 td.foswikiTableCol5 {text-align:left}
body .foswikiTable#tableSafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes6 td.foswikiTableCol6 {text-align:left}
body .foswikiTable#tableSafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes6 td.foswikiTableCol7 {text-align:left}
body .foswikiTable#tableSafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes6 th {vertical-align:middle; background-color:#ffffff; color:#0066cc; text-align:left}
body .foswikiTable#tableSafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes6 th a:link {color:#0066cc}
body .foswikiTable#tableSafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes6 th a:visited {color:#0066cc}
body .foswikiTable#tableSafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes6 th a:hover {color:#0066cc; background-color:#ffffff}
body .foswikiTable#tableSafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes6 th.foswikiSortedCol {background-color:#eeeeee}
body .foswikiTable#tableSafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes6 tr.foswikiTableRowdataBg0 td {background-color:#ffffff}
body .foswikiTable#tableSafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes6 tr.foswikiTableRowdataBg0 td.foswikiSortedCol {background-color:#f5f5f5}
</style><!--TABLEPLUGIN_specific-->
<script src="../System/JQueryPlugin.attachments/jquery-2.2.4.js" class="script JQUERYPLUGIN"></script><!--JQUERYPLUGIN-->
<script src="../System/JQueryPlugin.attachments/plugins/observer/observer.js?version=0.1" class="script JQUERYPLUGIN::OBSERVER"></script><!--JQUERYPLUGIN::OBSERVER-->
<script src="../System/JQueryPlugin.attachments/plugins/migrate/jquery.migrate.js?version=3.3.1" class="script JQUERYPLUGIN::MIGRATE"></script><!--JQUERYPLUGIN::MIGRATE-->
<script class="script JQUERYPLUGIN::FOSWIKI" src="../System/JQueryPlugin.attachments/plugins/foswiki/jquery.foswiki.js?version=3.01"></script><!--JQUERYPLUGIN::FOSWIKI-->
<script src="../System/JQueryPlugin.attachments/plugins/browser/jquery.browser.js?version=0.1.0" class="script JQUERYPLUGIN::BROWSER"></script><!--JQUERYPLUGIN::BROWSER-->
<script class='script JQUERYPLUGIN::FOSWIKI::PREFERENCES foswikiPreferences' type='text/json'>{
   "USERSWEB" : "Main",
   "WIKIUSERNAME" : "Main.WikiAdmin",
   "TOPIC" : "SafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes",
   "SERVERTIME" : "08 Feb 2023 - 15:51",
   "WEB" : "GraphicsWorkingGroup",
   "SCRIPTURLPATHS" : {},
   "NAMEFILTER" : "[\\\\\\s*?~^$@%`\"'&|<:;>\\[\\]#\\x00-\\x1f]",
   "USERNAME" : "WikiAdmin",
   "PUBURLPATH" : "/foswiki/pub",
   "SCRIPTURL" : "http://biostat1478.dhcp.mc.vanderbilt.edu/foswiki/bin",
   "SYSTEMWEB" : "System",
   "URLHOST" : "http://biostat1478.dhcp.mc.vanderbilt.edu",
   "PUBURL" : "http://biostat1478.dhcp.mc.vanderbilt.edu/foswiki/pub",
   "COOKIEREALM" : "",
   "WIKINAME" : "WikiAdmin",
   "SCRIPTURLPATH" : "/foswiki/bin",
   "SCRIPTSUFFIX" : "",
   "SKIN" : "natedit,pattern"
}
</script><!--JQUERYPLUGIN::FOSWIKI::PREFERENCES-->
<script class="script JQUERYPLUGIN::TWISTY" src="../System/TwistyPlugin.attachments/jquery.twisty.js?version=1.6.0"></script><!--JQUERYPLUGIN::TWISTY: requires= missing ids: JavascriptFiles/foswikiPref-->
</head>
<body>
<h1 id="Safety_Graphics_Meeting_Minutes">  Safety Graphics Meeting Minutes </h1>
<p></p>
<span id="ReturntoTop"></span>
<p></p>
For questions about the minutes <a href="mailto:Bruce.Weaver@fda.hhs.gov?subject=Meeting%20Minutes%20Statistical%20Graphics"> email us.</a>
<p></p>
<div class="foswikiToc" id="foswikiTOC"> <ul>
<li> <a href="#May_19._2010"> May 19. 2010 </a>
</li> <li> <a href="#April_27_44_2010"> April 27, 2010 </a>
</li> <li> <a href="#March_18_44_2010"> March 18, 2010 </a>
</li> <li> <a href="#February_26_44_2010"> February 26, 2010 </a>
</li> <li> <a href="#January_21_44_2010"> January 21, 2010 </a>
</li></ul> 
</div>
<h2 id="May_19._2010">  May 19. 2010 </h2>
 <a href="SafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes.attachments/Industry-FDA-Academia_Graphics_Working_Group_Meeting_Minutes_May_19__2010.doc">Click here for Word document of May 19th Minutes</a>
<p></p>
<strong>Meeting Subject: </strong>Industry/FDA/Academia Safety Graphics Working Group
<p></p>
Teleconference
<p></p>
<strong>Meeting Date: </strong>Tuesday May 19, 2010
<p></p>
<strong>Meeting Time: </strong>2:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. (EST)
<p></p>
<strong>Meeting Location: </strong>White Oak Building 21, Room 4560
<p></p>
<div align="center">
<p></p>
<table class="foswikiTable" rules="none">
	<tbody>
		<tr class="foswikiTableOdd foswikiTableRowdataBgSorted0 foswikiTableRowdataBg0">
			<td class="foswikiTableCol0 foswikiFirstCol"> <p> <strong>Attendees</strong> </p> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol1 foswikiLastCol"> <p>Mat Soukup (Chair), Bruce Weaver (Project Manager), Richard J. Anziano, Fabrice Bancken, Navdeep Boparai, Andreas Bruckner, Janelle Charles, Brenda Crowe, Suzanne Demko, Susan Duke, Richard Forshee, Eric Frimprong, Robert &rdquo;Mac&rdquo; Gordon, Matthew Gribbin, Frank Harrell, Qi Jiang, Stephine Keeton, Leslie Kenna, Ken Koury </p> </td>
		</tr>
		<tr class="foswikiTableEven foswikiTableRowdataBgSorted1 foswikiTableRowdataBg1">
			<td class="foswikiTableCol0 foswikiFirstCol foswikiLast"> <p> <strong>Absentees</strong> </p> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol1 foswikiLastCol foswikiLast"> <p>Charles Cooper, Sylvia Engelen, Kate Gelprine, Frederico Goodsaid, Larry Gould, Ted Guo, Liping Huang, Antonio Paredes, Jadhav Pravin, George Rochester, John Senior, Jeff Summers, Mark Walderhaug, Markus Yap</p> </td>
		</tr>
	</tbody></table>
</div>
<p></p>
<strong><u>Meeting Purpose</u></strong><strong>: </strong></a>Accept the minutes from the previous meeting. Review the minutes from the Subgroups; Adverse Events, ECG/Vitals, General Principles, and Labs and Liver. Have an update on CTSpedia. Review Action Items from the previous meeting; review Data Sets, discuss and assign conferences to attend.
<p></p>
<strong><em><u>Points of Discussion</u></em></strong>
<p></p>
<strong>New Membership</strong>
<p></p>
Catherine Njue &ndash; Health Canada
<p></p>
<strong>Acceptance of the minutes from the previous meeting</strong>
<p></p>
Mat inquired if there was anything discuss from the previous months meeting. There was not and the minutes were accepted without further discussion.
<p></p>
<strong>Subgroup Meeting Minutes</strong>
<p></p>
<u>Adverse Events</u> &ndash; Stephine Keeton gave a summary of the group&rsquo;s last meeting.
<p></p>
<u>ECG and Vitals</u> &ndash; Rich Anziano gave a summary of the group&rsquo;s last meeting. <ul>
<li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Antonio took an action item from the ECG and Vitals subgroup meeting to look into the feasibility of sharing pediatric ECG and Vitals data from the previous large group meeting. Antonio was not present to discuss this and it will be tabled until the next meeting.</span>
</li></ul> 
<u>General Principles</u> &ndash; Susan Duke gave a summary of the group&rsquo;s last meeting.  <ul>
<li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Discussed the group&rsquo;s bio-sketch, and the prospect of using bio-sketches on CTSpedia.</span>
</li></ul> 
<u>Labs and Liver</u> &ndash; Mac Gordon gave a summary of the group&rsquo;s last meeting.
<p></p>
<strong>Action Items from the previous meeting</strong> <ul>
<li> <strong>CTSpedia and the Subgroups</strong>
</li></ul> 
<strong>Mary Banach will be to point of contact for technical questions</strong>  <ul>
<li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Register on CTSpedia further instructions will be sent</span>
</li></ul> 
The Wiki will be the location for sharing information, as opposed to email attachments.
<p></p>
-Each Subgroup should have there own page. <ul>
<li>  <ul>
<li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Within this page start subsections based on a graphic that will address a specific clinical question.</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">If there are issues programming graphics out, sketches can be scanned and submitted in jpeg format so it can be easily depicted on the site. </span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">This format will facilitate comments and further dialogue.</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Each group should develop a template for when a finalized graph is produced; what type of information should be depicted, how are the graphs going to classified (long term goal not immediate).</span>
</li></ul> 
</li></ul> 
<p></p> <ul>
<li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Data Sets small data sets acquired</span>  <ul>
<li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Pediatric Data Set &ndash; Leslie Kenna</span>  <ul>
<li>  <ul>
<li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Has the pediatric form body, and has a link.</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Find a way to distribute this smaller data set.</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Mat will look into how to distribute this and other data sets and if the wiki can accommodate this effort; and what restrictions exist.</span>
</li></ul> 
</li></ul> 
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Large Data Set &ndash; Brenda Crowe</span>  <ul>
<li>  <ul>
<li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Robust data set contains a good spectrum of safety data.</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">De-identified</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Contains Adverse events and Labs.</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Perhaps vitals, but no ECGs</span>  <ul>
<li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Brenda will report the status of this effort to Mat, Bruce, and the team leads; and identify members to provide assistance. </span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Brenda will attempt to initiate a web conference between Mat and Greg.</span>
</li></ul> 
</li></ul> 
</li></ul> 
</li></ul> 
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Conferences/planned presentations</span>  <ul>
<li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Mat has a presentation at the JSM Invited session for safety graphics. He will not comment specifically on what the group has devised. Mat will though mention; what the group is, what the membership is, and the specific goals to be achieved. This was put out to the membership and there were no objections.</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">FDA/Industry Workshop in September. Mat will discuss the constructs of forming the group, preliminary results, and will not get into content (this will be addressed at the ICSA meeting). The focus will be what it took to get the group formed, and what members have done.</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Qi will attend the ICSA June 26 &ndash; 29, 2011 in New York, New York. This presentation will further advertise the group&rsquo;s efforts and pick up where the Mat left off at the FDA/Industry Workshop. Qi described the ICSA/JSM partnership. <strong><u>Proposal:</u></strong> A session titled <u>Innovative Drug Safety Graphical Presentation</u>. Mat and Qi will organize this session and co-chair. There will be three speakers and one discussant or four speakers. Ideally the four speakers would be a lead or a delegate from the subgroups and speak for twenty minutes. </span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Brenda raised the point of if we should do this for other meetings as well, and if we should develop a template and distribute them widely.</span>
</li></ul> 
</li></ul> 
<strong><u>Conferences of Interest and point person</u></strong>  <ul>
<li>  <ul>
<li>  <ol>
<li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">JSM &ndash; Brenda Crowe</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">ENAR 2011 &ndash; Janelle Charles</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Society for Clinical Trials &ndash; Mac Gordon</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">FDA/Industry &ndash; Brenda Crowe</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">DIA Annual &ndash; Mat Soukup</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">2011 International Chinese Statistical Association &ndash; Qi Jiang</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Statistical Methodology in Research and Development &ndash; Fabrice Bancken</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">World Drug Safety Congress (Europe) - Qi Jiang</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">PSI (Statisticians in the Pharmaceutical Industry) &ndash; Susan Duke</span>
</li></ol> 
</li></ul> 
</li></ul> 
<u>Deliverables:</u>  <ul>
<li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Dates of the conference</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Location of the conference </span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Can a proposal be submitted? </span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Deadlines for proposals</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">The structure for the proposal</span>
</li></ul> 
<strong>Open Discussion</strong>
<p></p>
Additional discussion of DIA workshops, the possibility of working with other technical groups, DIA, and the Online Journal Club &ndash; Ken Koury
<p></p>
<strong>Action Items</strong> <ol>
<li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Antonio took an action item from the ECG and Vitals subgroup meeting to look into the feasibility of sharing pediatric ECG and Vitals data from the previous large group meeting. Antonio was not present to discuss this and it will be tabled until the next meeting.</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">All members should register on CTSpedia, and then contact Mary Banach (<a href="mailto&#58;mary&#46;banach&#64;vanderbilt&#46;edu">mary.banach&#64;vanderbilt.edu</a>) to receive access to the Statistical Graphics Web.</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Mary Banach will give a brief introduction on how to use the wiki.</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Each group should develop a template for when a finalized graph is produced; what type of information should be depicted, how the graphs will be classified (long term goal not immediate).</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Mat will look into how to distribute data sets, and if the wiki can accommodate this effort; and what restrictions exist.</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Subgroups identify a representative to speak for 20 minutes at ICSA.</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Subgroups develop a standard slide set for conferences.</span>
</li> <li> <strong><u style="font-family: Calibri">Conferences of Interest and point person</u></strong>
</li>  </ol><ul>
<li> JSM &ndash; Brenda Crowe
</li> <li> ENAR 2011 &ndash; Janelle Charles
</li> <li> Society for Clinical Trials &ndash; Mac Gordon
</li> <li> FDA/Industry &ndash; Brenda Crowe
</li> <li> DIA Annual &ndash; Mat Soukup
</li> <li> 2011 International Chinese Statistical Association &ndash; Qi Jiang
</li> <li> Statistical Methodology in Research and Development &ndash; Fabrice Bancken
</li> <li> World Drug Safety Congress (Europe) - Qi Jiang
</li> <li> PSI (Statisticians in the Pharmaceutical Industry) &ndash; Susan Duke
</li></ul> 
<u>Deliverables:</u>  <ul>
<li>  <ul>
<li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Dates of the conference</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Location of the conference </span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Can a proposal be submitted? </span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Deadlines for proposals</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">The structure for the proposal</span>
</li></ul> 
</li></ul> 
<a class="foswikiCurrentTopicLink" href="#ReturntoTop">Return to Top</a> 
<h2 id="April_27_44_2010">  April 27, 2010 </h2>
<p></p>
<a href="SafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes.attachments/Industry-FDA-Academia_Graphics_Working_Group_Meeting_Minutes_April_27__2010.doc">Click here for Word document of April 27th Minutes</a>
<p></p>
<strong>Meeting Subject: </strong>Industry/FDA/Academia Safety Graphics Working Group
<p></p>
Teleconference
<p></p>
<strong>Meeting Date: </strong>Tuesday April 27, 2010
<p></p>
<strong>Meeting Time: </strong>2:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. (EST)
<p></p>
<strong>Meeting Location: </strong>White Oak Building 21, Room 1539
<p></p>
<div align="center">
<p></p>
<table class="foswikiTable" rules="none">
	<tbody>
		<tr class="foswikiTableOdd foswikiTableRowdataBgSorted0 foswikiTableRowdataBg0">
			<td class="foswikiTableCol0 foswikiFirstCol"> <p> <strong>Attendees</strong> </p> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol1 foswikiLastCol"> <p>Ken Koury (Chair), Qi Jiang, Richard J. Anziano, Navdeep Boparai, Janelle Charles, Suzanne Demko, Susan Duke, Richard Forshee, Eric Frimprong, Robert &rdquo;Mac&rdquo; Gordon, Stephine Keeton, Leslie Kenna, Antonio Paredes, George Rochester, Markus Yap, Fabrice Bancken, Charles Cooper, Brenda Crowe, Larry Gould, Matthew Gribbin, Frank Harrell</p> </td>
		</tr>
		<tr class="foswikiTableEven foswikiTableRowdataBgSorted1 foswikiTableRowdataBg1">
			<td class="foswikiTableCol0 foswikiFirstCol foswikiLast"> <p> <strong>Absentees</strong> </p> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol1 foswikiLastCol foswikiLast"> <p>Andreas Br\xC3&fnof;&fnof;\xC3&sbquo;¼ckner, Sylvia Engelen, Kate Gelprine, Frederico Goodsaid, Liping Huang, Pravin Jadhav, Qi Jiang, George Rochester, John Senior, Mat Soukup, Jeff Summers, Mark Walderhaug</p> </td>
		</tr>
	</tbody></table>
</div>
<p></p>
<strong>Meeting Purpose: </strong><a name="OLE_LINK2"></a><a name="OLE_LINK1"></a>Accept the minutes from the previous meeting. Review the minutes from the Subgroups; Adverse Events, ECG/Vitals, General Principles, and Labs and Liver. Have an update on Website/Statforum. Review Action Items from the previous meeting; Duke Clinical Research Data Sets, and large public and placebo data.
<p></p>
<strong><em>Points of Discussion</em></strong>
<p></p>
<strong>New Membership</strong>
<p></p>
Yaning Wang Adverse Events Subgroup, and the Labs and Liver
<p></p>
Subgroup
<p></p>
The following members will attend subgroup meetings only.
<p></p>
Rob Fiorentino ECG and Vitals Subgroup
<p></p>
Pravin Jadhav ECG and Vitals Subgroup
<p></p>
Jeff Summers Adverse Events Subgroup
<p></p>
and General Principles Subgroup
<p></p>
Hao Zhu ECG and Vitals Subgroup
<p></p>
The following have requested to be informed of the Working Groups
<p></p>
progress but are currently unable to commit time to the groups ecorts.
<p></p>
Kate Gelperin
<p></p>
Ted Guo
<p></p>
John Senior
<p></p>
<strong>Acceptance of the minutes from the previous meeting</strong>
<p></p>
Ken inquired if there was anything discuss from the previous months meeting. There was not and the minutes were accepted without further discussion.
<p></p>
<strong>Subgroup Meeting Minutes</strong>
<p></p>
Adverse Events &ndash; Stephine Keeton
<p></p>
ECG and Vitals &ndash; Rich Anziano
<p></p>
General Principles &ndash; Susan Duke
<p></p>
Labs and Liver &ndash; Mac Gordon
<p></p>
<strong>Action Items from the previous meeting</strong> <ol>
<li> <strong>Update on Website/Statforum &ndash; Ken Koury</strong>
</li> <li> <strong>Duke Clinical Research Data Sets &ndash; Antonio Paredes</strong>
</li> <li> <strong>QT data &ndash; Leslie Kenna</strong>
</li></ol> 
<strong>Announcements and Open Discussion</strong>
<p></p> <ol>
<li> <strong>What sample data will be available to use?</strong>
</li> <li> <strong>2011 International Chinese Statistical Association (ICSA) Applied Statistical Symposioum</strong>
</li></ol> 
<strong>June 26-29, 2011</strong>
<p></p>
<strong>New York</strong> <strong>, New York</strong>
<p></p>
<strong>Discuss the idea of organizing a safety graphics session.</strong>
<p></p>
<strong>Open Discussion</strong>
<p></p>
<a class="foswikiCurrentTopicLink" href="#ReturntoTop">Return to Top</a>
<h2 id="March_18_44_2010">  March 18, 2010 </h2>
<p></p>
<a href="SafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes.attachments/Industry-FDA-Academia_Graphics_Working_Group_Meeting_Minutes_March_18__2010.doc">Click here for Word document of March 18th Minutes</a>
<p></p>
<strong>Meeting Subject: </strong>Industry/FDA/Academia Safety Graphics Working Group
<p></p>
Teleconference
<p></p>
<strong>Meeting Date: </strong>Thursday March 18, 2010
<p></p>
<strong>Meeting Time: </strong>3:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. (EST)
<p></p>
<strong>Meeting Location: </strong>White Oak Building 21, Room 1537
<p></p>
<div align="center">
<p></p>
<table class="foswikiTable" rules="none">
	<tbody>
		<tr class="foswikiTableOdd foswikiTableRowdataBgSorted0 foswikiTableRowdataBg0">
			<td class="foswikiTableCol0 foswikiFirstCol"> <p> <strong>Attendees</strong> </p> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol1 foswikiLastCol"> <p>Mat Soukup(Chair), Qi Jiang, Richard J. Anziano, Navdeep Boparai, Janelle Charles, Suzanne Demko, Susan Duke, Richard Forshee, Eric Frimprong, Robert &rdquo;Mac&rdquo; Gordon, Liping Huang, Stephine Keeton, Leslie Kenna, Antonio Paredes, George Rochester, Markus Yap </p> </td>
		</tr>
		<tr class="foswikiTableEven foswikiTableRowdataBgSorted1 foswikiTableRowdataBg1">
			<td class="foswikiTableCol0 foswikiFirstCol foswikiLast"> <p> <strong>Absentees</strong> </p> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol1 foswikiLastCol foswikiLast"> <p>Ken Koury, Fabrice Bancken, Andreas Br\xC3&fnof;&fnof;\xC3&sbquo;¼ckner, Charles Cooper, Brenda Crowe, Sylvia Engelen, Federico Goodsaid, Larry Gould, Matthew Gribbin, Frank Harrell, Mark Walderhaug</p> </td>
		</tr>
	</tbody></table>
</div>
<p></p>
<strong>Meeting Purpose: </strong><a name="OLE_LINK2"></a><a name="OLE_LINK1"></a>Accept the minutes from the previous meeting. Review the minutes from the Subgroup Meeting. Solicit volunteers for leadership and membership of the groups that will focus on clinical questions, and general principles. Discuss submitted gallery links, change of meeting duration from 1 hour and 30 minutes to 1 hour, and the recruitment of clinical/medical membership.
<p></p>
<strong><em>Points of Discussion</em></strong>
<p></p>
<strong>Acceptance of the minutes from the previous meeting</strong>
<p></p>
Mat inquired if there was anything discuss from the previous months meeting. There was not and the minutes were accepted without further discussion.
<p></p>
<strong>Subgroup Meeting Minutes</strong>
<p></p>
Mat solicited the working group for volunteers to join one of the four subgroups and for volunteers to lead them. Mat noted that Brenda has a data set identified and this could be used to build skeleton forms. George noted that Duke Clinical Research has several data sets. Acquiring these data sets was made an action item. Antonio volunteered to be responsible for this action item. It was also noted that there is a source of public and placebo data. Leslie volunteered to be responsible for the collection of this data.
<p></p>
A question was raised regarding a common work area. It was noted that Frank Harrell&rsquo;s site is not scheduled to be online for another 6 weeks.
<p></p>
Markus inquired if medical imaging is of interest. <ul>
<li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">George pointed out that medical imaging is not excluded, graphics will be entertained.</span>
</li></ul> 
Susan noted that she has some medical images.  <ul>
<li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">George stated that we are pushing towards integrated analysis.</span>
</li></ul> 
Mat asked the group for volunteers to each of the four subgroups. <table width="585" cellspacing="0" style="width: 439pt; margin-left: 4.8pt; border-collapse: collapse" cellpadding="0" border="0"> <tbody><tr style="height: 18.75pt"> <td width="145" valign="bottom" style="width: 108.6pt; border-width: 1pt medium medium 1pt; border-style: solid none none solid; border-color: windowtext -moz-use-text-color -moz-use-text-color windowtext; background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% #969696; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 18.75pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center"><a name="_Hlk257190411"></a>Adverse Events</p> </td> <td width="156" valign="bottom" style="width: 117pt; border-width: 1pt medium medium; border-style: solid none none; border-color: windowtext -moz-use-text-color -moz-use-text-color; background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% #969696; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 18.75pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center">Labs &amp; Liver</p> </td> <td width="156" valign="bottom" style="width: 117pt; border-width: 1pt medium medium; border-style: solid none none; border-color: windowtext -moz-use-text-color -moz-use-text-color; background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% #969696; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 18.75pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center">ECG/vitals</p> </td> <td width="129" valign="bottom" style="width: 96.4pt; border-width: 1pt 1pt medium medium; border-style: solid solid none none; border-color: windowtext windowtext -moz-use-text-color -moz-use-text-color; background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% #969696; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 18.75pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center">General Principles</p> </td> </tr> <tr style="height: 18.75pt"> <td width="145" valign="bottom" style="width: 108.6pt; border-width: medium medium medium 1pt; border-style: none none none solid; border-color: -moz-use-text-color -moz-use-text-color -moz-use-text-color windowtext; background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 18.75pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center">Stephine Keeton</p> </td> <td width="156" valign="bottom" style="width: 117pt; background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 18.75pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center">Mac Gordon</p> </td> <td width="156" valign="bottom" style="width: 117pt; background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 18.75pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center">Rich Anziano</p> </td> <td width="129" valign="bottom" style="width: 96.4pt; border-width: medium 1pt medium medium; border-style: none solid none none; border-color: -moz-use-text-color windowtext -moz-use-text-color -moz-use-text-color; background: none repeat scroll 0% 0% silver; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 18.75pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center">Susan Duke </p> </td> </tr> <tr style="height: 18.75pt"> <td width="145" valign="bottom" style="width: 108.6pt; border-width: medium medium medium 1pt; border-style: none none none solid; border-color: -moz-use-text-color -moz-use-text-color -moz-use-text-color windowtext; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 18.75pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center">Janelle Charles</p> </td> <td width="156" valign="bottom" style="width: 117pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 18.75pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center">Susan Duke</p> </td> <td width="156" valign="bottom" style="width: 117pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 18.75pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center">Antonio Paredes</p> </td> <td width="129" valign="bottom" style="width: 96.4pt; border-width: medium 1pt medium medium; border-style: none solid none none; border-color: -moz-use-text-color windowtext -moz-use-text-color -moz-use-text-color; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 18.75pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center">Brenda Crowe</p> </td> </tr> <tr style="height: 18.75pt"> <td width="145" valign="bottom" style="width: 108.6pt; border-width: medium medium medium 1pt; border-style: none none none solid; border-color: -moz-use-text-color -moz-use-text-color -moz-use-text-color windowtext; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 18.75pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center">Liping Huang</p> </td> <td width="156" valign="bottom" style="width: 117pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 18.75pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center">Qi Jiang</p> </td> <td width="156" valign="bottom" style="width: 117pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 18.75pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center">Mat Soukup</p> </td> <td width="129" valign="bottom" style="width: 96.4pt; border-width: medium 1pt medium medium; border-style: none solid none none; border-color: -moz-use-text-color windowtext -moz-use-text-color -moz-use-text-color; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 18.75pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center">Rich Forshee</p> </td> </tr> <tr style="height: 18.75pt"> <td width="145" valign="bottom" style="width: 108.6pt; border-width: medium medium medium 1pt; border-style: none none none solid; border-color: -moz-use-text-color -moz-use-text-color -moz-use-text-color windowtext; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 18.75pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center">Qi Jiang</p> </td> <td width="156" valign="bottom" style="width: 117pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 18.75pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center">Leslie Kenna</p> </td> <td width="156" valign="bottom" style="width: 117pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 18.75pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center">Markus Yap</p> </td> <td width="129" valign="bottom" style="width: 96.4pt; border-width: medium 1pt medium medium; border-style: none solid none none; border-color: -moz-use-text-color windowtext -moz-use-text-color -moz-use-text-color; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 18.75pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center">Qi Jiang</p> </td> </tr> <tr style="height: 18.75pt"> <td width="145" valign="bottom" style="width: 108.6pt; border-width: medium medium medium 1pt; border-style: none none none solid; border-color: -moz-use-text-color -moz-use-text-color -moz-use-text-color windowtext; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 18.75pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center">Mat Soukup </p> </td> <td width="156" valign="bottom" style="width: 117pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 18.75pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center">Mat Soukup</p> </td> <td width="156" valign="bottom" style="width: 117pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 18.75pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center"> </p> </td> <td width="129" valign="bottom" style="width: 96.4pt; border-width: medium 1pt medium medium; border-style: none solid none none; border-color: -moz-use-text-color windowtext -moz-use-text-color -moz-use-text-color; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 18.75pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center">Mat Soukup</p> </td> </tr> <tr style="height: 18.75pt"> <td width="145" valign="bottom" style="width: 108.6pt; border-width: medium medium medium 1pt; border-style: none none none solid; border-color: -moz-use-text-color -moz-use-text-color -moz-use-text-color windowtext; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 18.75pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center"> </p> </td> <td width="156" valign="bottom" style="width: 117pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 18.75pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center"> </p> </td> <td width="156" valign="bottom" style="width: 117pt; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 18.75pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center"> </p> </td> <td width="129" valign="bottom" style="width: 96.4pt; border-width: medium 1pt medium medium; border-style: none solid none none; border-color: -moz-use-text-color windowtext -moz-use-text-color -moz-use-text-color; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 18.75pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center">Markus Yap</p> </td> </tr> <tr style="height: 19.5pt"> <td width="145" valign="bottom" style="width: 108.6pt; border-width: medium medium 1pt 1pt; border-style: none none solid solid; border-color: -moz-use-text-color -moz-use-text-color windowtext windowtext; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 19.5pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center"> </p> </td> <td width="156" valign="bottom" style="width: 117pt; border-width: medium medium 1pt; border-style: none none solid; border-color: -moz-use-text-color -moz-use-text-color windowtext; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 19.5pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center"> </p> </td> <td width="156" valign="bottom" style="width: 117pt; border-width: medium medium 1pt; border-style: none none solid; border-color: -moz-use-text-color -moz-use-text-color windowtext; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 19.5pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center"> </p> </td> <td width="129" valign="bottom" style="width: 96.4pt; border-width: medium 1pt 1pt medium; border-style: none solid solid none; border-color: -moz-use-text-color windowtext windowtext -moz-use-text-color; padding: 0in 5.4pt; height: 19.5pt"> <p align="center" style="text-align: center"> </p> </td> </tr> </tbody></table>
<p></p>
<strong>Recruitment of clinical/medical membership</strong>
<p></p>
Mat raised the issue of recruiting medical membership. The objective is to recruit at least two clinical/medical members for each of the subgroups, one from the FDA and one from <a title="Create this topic" rel="nofollow" class="foswikiNewLink" href="PhRMA.html">PhRMA</a>.
<p></p>
<strong>Gallery Links</strong> <ul>
<li> <a href="http://addictedtor.free.fr/graphiques/thumbs.php">http://addictedtor.free.fr/graphiques/thumbs.php</a> contributed by Richard Forshee
</li></ul> 
This site has content from a wide array as well as all of the accompanying code. Rich noted that this site appears to be down.  <ul>
<li> <a href="http://www.math.yorku.ca/SCS/Gallery/">http://www.math.yorku.ca/SCS/Gallery/</a> contributed by Andreas Bruckner
</li></ul> 
Andreas was not on the line and no further information was provided.
<p></p> <ul>
<li> <a href="http://biostat.mc.vanderbilt.edu/StatGraphCourse">http://biostat.mc.vanderbilt.edu/StatGraphCourse</a> contributed by Frank Harrell
</li></ul> 
Mat noted that this site is used by Frank for his classes.
<p></p>
<strong>Working Group Meeting Length</strong>
<p></p>
The monthly working group teleconferences will be reduced to an hour. For scheduling purposes conference room reservations will still be made for an hour and a half to allow further discussion if necessary.
<p></p>
<strong>Action Items</strong> <ul>
<li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Acquisition of Duke Clinical Research Data Sets &ndash; <strong>Antonio Paredes</strong> </span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Acquisiton of large public and placebo data &ndash; <strong>Leslie Kenna</strong> </span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Distribution of Subgroups and further solicitation of membership &ndash; <strong>Bruce Weaver</strong> </span>
</li> <li> <strong>Subgroups:</strong>  <ul>
<li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Begin to collect examples.</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Formulate a mini-plan and distribute it at the next meeting. This mini-plan should include broad timelines.</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Address the questions/areas from the &ldquo;Path Forward&rdquo;(first subgroup meeting minutes.</span>
</li></ul> 
</li></ul> 
<a href="#ReturntoTop" class="foswikiCurrentTopicLink">Return to Top</a> 
<h2 id="February_26_44_2010">  February 26, 2010 </h2>
<p></p>
<a href="SafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes.attachments/Industry-FDA-Academia_Graphics_Working_Group_Meeting_Minutes_February_26__2010.doc">Click here for Word document of February26th Minutes</a>
<p></p>
<strong>Meeting Subject: </strong>Industry/FDA/Academia Safety Graphics Working Group
<p></p>
Teleconference
<p></p>
<strong>Meeting Date: </strong>Friday February 26, 2010
<p></p>
<strong>Meeting Time: </strong>11:00 p.m. to 12:30 p.m.
<p></p>
<strong>Meeting Location: </strong>White Oak Building 21, Room 3560
<p></p>
<div align="center">
<p></p>
<table class="foswikiTable" rules="none">
	<tbody>
		<tr class="foswikiTableOdd foswikiTableRowdataBgSorted0 foswikiTableRowdataBg0">
			<td class="foswikiTableCol0 foswikiFirstCol"> <p> <strong>Attendees</strong> </p> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol1 foswikiLastCol"> <p>George Rochester, Mat Soukup, Ken Koury, Richard J. Anziano, Fabrice Bancken, Navdeep Boparai, Andreas Br\xC3&fnof;¼ckner, Janelle Charles, Charles Cooper, Brenda Crowe, Suzanne Demko, Susan Duke, Sylvia Engelen, Richard Forshee, Federico Goodsaid, Eric Frimprong, Robert Gordon, Larry Gould, Matthew Gribbin, Frank Harrell, Liping Huang, Stephine Keeton, Leslie Kenna, Antonio Paredes, Mark Walderhaug, Markus Yap </p> </td>
		</tr>
		<tr class="foswikiTableEven foswikiTableRowdataBgSorted1 foswikiTableRowdataBg1">
			<td class="foswikiTableCol0 foswikiFirstCol foswikiLast"> <p> <strong>Absentees</strong> </p> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol1 foswikiLastCol foswikiLast"> <p>Qi Jiang</p> </td>
		</tr>
	</tbody></table>
</div>
<p></p>
<strong>Meeting Purpose: </strong>Introduce three new group members. Update group members on the most recent version of the charter including group name change. Have a brief review and in-depth discussion of the sample graphics from Susan Duke. Discuss the Repository Detail Outline supplied Mat Soukup and Frank Harrell. The group will be updated on the FDA/Industry Workshop meeting by Stephine Keeton. The draft bibliography will be submitted to group members, and additional entries will be requested.
<p></p>
<strong><em>Points of Discussion</em></strong>
<p></p>
<strong>New Members</strong> <ul>
<li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Markus Yap &ndash; Commissioner&rsquo;s Fellow (Biologist) in OCS</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Richard Forshee - CBER</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Mark Walderhaug &ndash; Alternate from CBER</span>
</li></ul> 
<strong>Charter</strong>
<p></p>
Qi Jiang updated the major project deliverables section of the Charter. George Rochester completed the roles and responsibilities section of the Charter.
<p></p>
<strong>Review of Sample Graphics</strong> <ul>
<li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Need to devise a method of governing content that does not contradict the ideals of a wiki format:</span>  <ul>
<li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Provide Levels for content</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Enlist a rating system e.g. Amazon Ratings</span>
</li></ul> 
</li></ul> 
<strong>Repository Detail Outline</strong>  <ul>
<li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Will be several weeks before we have a clean design.</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Rather than having a private section, we should have an open approach. As the site becomes more official, we can have a private wiki.</span>  <ul>
<li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">A mid-level approach would be a wiki with groups.</span>
</li></ul> 
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">The question of how best to develop this pallet was posed.</span>  <ul>
<li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">A small group can develop the pallet and be ready for dissent later.</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Have input from a large group and have dissent built in.</span>
</li></ul> 
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Put up R gallery and add code.</span>
</li></ul> 
<strong>Bibliography</strong>  <ul>
<li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">A sample bibliography was submitted.</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Additional entries were requested from the group members.</span>
</li></ul> 
<strong>FDA/Industry Workshop</strong>  <ul>
<li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">There will not be a graphics section </span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">There will be a Safety Signal Detection section.</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">3 confirmed speakers.</span>
</li> <li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Remains to decide whether the session will be plenary or concurrent.</span>
</li></ul> 
<strong>Action Items</strong>  <ul>
<li> <span style="font-family: Calibri">Subteam Meeting minutes will be forwarded to Bruce Weaver.</span>
</li></ul> 
<a class="foswikiCurrentTopicLink" href="#ReturntoTop">Return to Top</a>
<p></p>
<h2 id="January_21_44_2010">  January 21, 2010 </h2>
 <a href="SafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes.attachments/PhRMA-FDA-Academia_Graphics_Working_Group_Meeting_Minutes_January_21__2010Draftl.doc">Click here for Word document of January 21st Minutes</a>
<p></p>
<strong>Meeting Subject: </strong>PhRMA/FDA/Academia Safety Graphics Working Group
<p></p>
Teleconference
<p></p>
<strong>Meeting Date: </strong>Wednesday January 21, 2010
<p></p>
<strong>Meeting Time: </strong>2:00 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.
<p></p>
<strong>Meeting Location: </strong>WO Bldg 21, Room 3560
<p></p>
<table class="foswikiTable" rules="none">
	<tbody>
		<tr class="foswikiTableOdd foswikiTableRowdataBgSorted0 foswikiTableRowdataBg0">
			<td class="foswikiTableCol0 foswikiFirstCol"> <p> <strong>Attendees</strong> </p> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol1 foswikiLastCol"> <p><strong>George Rochester (Chair), Matt Soukup(Co-Chair), </strong>Richard J. Anziano, Fabrice Bancken, Frank Harrell, Ken Koury, Larry Gould, Liping Huang, Qi Jiang, Robert Gordon, Susan Duke, Janelle Charles, Charles Cooper, Stephine Keeton, Leslie Kenna, Antonio Paredes, Bruce Weaver(Project Coordinator)</p> </td>
		</tr>
		<tr class="foswikiTableEven foswikiTableRowdataBgSorted1 foswikiTableRowdataBg1">
			<td class="foswikiTableCol0 foswikiFirstCol foswikiLast"> <p> <strong>Absentees:</strong> </p> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol1 foswikiLastCol foswikiLast"> <p>Andreas Bruckner, Navdeep Boparai, Brenda Crowe, Matthew Gribbin, Sylvia Engelen, Suzanne Demko, Federico Goodsaid</p> </td>
		</tr>
	</tbody></table>
<p></p>
<strong>Meeting Purpose:</strong> Introduction of working group members, charter finalization, major milestones for 2010, web-hosting, and documentation.
<p></p>
<strong><em>Points of Discussion</em></strong>
<p></p>
<strong>Charter finalization</strong> <ul>
<li> It was noted that the numbering in Section 1 is out of order and 1.2 is listed twice.
</li> <li> In section 1.4 should state &ldquo;exploration and reporting&rdquo;.  <ul>
<li> Perhaps these tools could identify safety problems;  <ul>
<li> Include exploration and reporting.
</li> <li> Better understanding in reporting.
</li></ul> 
</li></ul> 
</li> <li> Concerning the Project Scope in addition to ISS, exploratory graphs, and study reports.  <ul>
<li> Include that the static graphics should be printable.
</li></ul> 
</li> <li> High Level Project Plan  <ul>
<li> Much of what will be developed will be useful to epidemiological studies.
</li> <li> The Charter may be adapted continuously.
</li> <li> As these tools are developed they aide in the production of new drugs. Should the Scope(1.4) reflect this.
</li></ul> 
</li> <li> Milestones  <ul>
<li> Remove &lsquo;Project Authority&rsquo; from the charter, leave only &lsquo;Milestones&rsquo; as the heading for Section 2.
</li> <li> Some major safety questions must be incorporated in 2.1.a.
</li> <li> Define 2.1.a.iii &ldquo;regulatory review and business processes&rdquo;  <ul>
<li> 2.1.a.iii should be its own sub-section, 2.1.e
</li> <li> What were the &ldquo;business process&rdquo;?  <ul>
<li> <span style="color: windowtext">This was the basis to describe how to use the pallet effectively. Recommendations for implementation of future work streams. </span>More detail is required.
</li></ul> 
</li></ul> 
</li> <li> <span style="color: windowtext">A discussion of 2.1.b &ldquo;Develop a palette of statistical graphics for specialized reporting of clinical trials data&rdquo; by Matt Soukup.</span>  <ul>
<li> <span style="color: windowtext">It is critical to development that data sets be submitted.</span>  <ul>
<li> <span style="color: windowtext">Users should be able to share how they have used graphics to display information. </span>
</li> <li> <span style="color: windowtext">Users should be able to submit data sets for information the do not know how to display.</span>
</li> <li> <span style="color: windowtext">New clinical data in CDISC format.</span>
</li> <li> <span style="color: windowtext">If any members of the working group have dummy data sets that could be used, they should submit them.</span>
</li></ul> 
</li> <li> <span style="color: windowtext">Members should discuss and share graphics they have.</span>  <ul>
<li> <span style="color: windowtext">This will require further discussion and assignments.</span>
</li></ul> 
</li> <li> <span style="color: windowtext">Points of discussion</span>
</li></ul> 
</li></ul> 
</li>  </ul><ol>
<li> How will these data sets be maintained, how will users contribute to this in the future?  <ul>
<li> Frank Harrell will address this in the future.
</li></ul> 
</li> <li> What will be the standards for text and graphics? e.g.  <ul>
<li> Resolution and properties for graphics.
</li> <li> Rules for text
</li> <li> Something beyond rules to encourage better graphics.
</li> <li> When the wiki is used how will best practices be ensured?
</li> <li> There should be some regulation of content e.g. a review process.
</li> <li> An outline to describe best practices.
</li> <li> In addition to proper credit, a disclaimer should be included that this data has not been verified for a desired level of quality.  <ul>
<li> Contributors should not feel responsible if their name was attached to some code and it fails to run.
</li> <li> Legal will be involved.
</li></ul> 
</li> <li> Documentation  <ul>
<li> A statement of purpose should be included so users know how to interpret graphs.
</li> <li> In the interest of time Section <strong>2.4 Major Project Deliverables </strong>will be assigned to a volunteer.  <ul>
<li> Qi Jiang Volunteered.
</li></ul> 
</li></ul> 
</li></ul> 
</li>  </ol><ul>
<li> Section 3 Project Structure <ul>
<li> Frank Harrell was asked if he could recommend any others in academia with interest in the groups effort. Rich Highburger at Temple University was recommended.
</li> <li> Vendors could be brought in but not as members so the group does not loose scope.
</li> <li> Section 3.1.2(d) Patient groups and health care providers. <ul>
<li> Since these graphics may end up on a label, this group is important.
</li> <li> There are no group members from section 3.1.2(d); we may include them when there is content to present for the outreach/training.
</li></ul> 
</li></ul> 
</li></ul> 
<strong>Web-hosting</strong> <ul>
<li> Frank Harrell  <ul>
<li>  <ul>
<li> Web-hosting platform can do what is required.
</li> <li> Good statistical practice is not documented. This may be a good objective.
</li> <li> Develop a compendium of test data sets with specific data sets that reflect reality.
</li> <li> Collect simulation designs;  <ul>
<li> 4 period cross over designs
</li> <li> Dose studies
</li> <li> 2x2 designs
</li></ul> 
</li> <li> If this could be a community platform for sharing ideas, that would be an added benefit.
</li> <li> CTSpedia just moved to Vanderbilt, and can bring various areas of expertise.
</li></ul> 
</li></ul> 
</li></ul> 
<strong>Documentation</strong>  <ul>
<li> Bruce Weaver should distribute Graphics from Susan Duke to group members
</li> <li> 
</li></ul> 
<strong>Future Meetings</strong>  <ul>
<li> Monthly teleconference that will take place on the third Wednesday of each month.
</li> <li> Face to Face meeting to coincide with either JSM or DIA.
</li> <li> Industry Workshop in September.
</li> <li> 
</li></ul> 
<strong>Major Milestones</strong>  <ul>
<li> Complete Section 2.1(a) by the first quarter.
</li> <li> Complete Section 2.1(b) by October 2010<strong>.</strong>
</li> <li> Create a repository by the end of the first quarter, Matt Soukup, Frank Harrell.
</li> <li> Education quarterly aim for different conferences and set as an ongoing objective.
</li></ul> 
<strong>Assignments</strong>  <ul>
<li> Roles and Responsibilities will be added to the charter by George Rochester.
</li> <li> Education, this is an ongoing objective that will take place at various conferences.
</li> <li> FDA Industry Workshop Planning Meeting Next Monday.  <ul>
<li>  <ul>
<li> This will be a good meeting to communicate and have a discussion.
</li> <li> Susan Duke and Stephine Keeton will attend, follow up and see if a Graphics Session was accepted for the Workshop in September. Susan Duke will be the point of contact for this meeting.
</li></ul> 
</li></ul> 
</li> <li> Mat Soukup will send Bruce Weaver a Repository Detail Outline for circulation to group members.
</li> <li> Susan Duke will provide a format for documentation.
</li> <li> Bruce Weaver will distribute Graphics from Susan Duke to group members.
</li> <li> Add Highburgers to the bibliography to be circulate, this publication as it is a good place to start when reviewing graphs.
</li> <li> Bruce Weaver will circulate Bibliography and solicit entries from group members.
</li></ul> 
<a href="#ReturntoTop" class="foswikiCurrentTopicLink">Return to Top</a>
<p></p>
<hr />
<p></p>
<hr />
<div class="foswikiAttachments foswikiFormStep" style="overflow:auto">
<div class="twistyPlugin foswikiMakeVisible"><span id="topicattachmentslist1show" style="display:none" class="twistyRememberSetting twistyTrigger foswikiUnvisited twistyInited"><a href=".." class="patternTwistyButton"><img alt="" border="0" src="../System/DocumentGraphics.attachments/toggleopen.png"><span class="foswikiLinkLabel foswikiUnvisited">Attachments <span class='foswikiSmall foswikiGrayText'>5</span></span></a></span><span id="topicattachmentslist1hide" style="display:none" class="twistyRememberSetting twistyTrigger foswikiUnvisited twistyInited"><a href=".." class="patternTwistyButton"><img border="0" alt="" src="../System/DocumentGraphics.attachments/toggleclose.png"><span class="foswikiLinkLabel foswikiUnvisited">Attachments <span class='foswikiSmall foswikiGrayText'>5</span></span></a></span></div><div class="twistyPlugin"><div id="topicattachmentslist1toggle" style="" class="twistyRememberSetting twistyContent twistyInited">
<table class="foswikiTable" id="tableSafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes6" rules="none" summary="Topic attachments"><caption>Topic attachments</caption>
	<thead>
		<tr class="foswikiTableOdd foswikiTableRowdataBgSorted0 foswikiTableRowdataBg0">
			<th class="foswikiTableCol0 foswikiFirstCol"> <a title="Sort by this column" href="../PublishPlugin/publish.html" rel="nofollow">I</a> </th>
			<th class="foswikiTableCol1"> <a rel="nofollow" href="../PublishPlugin/publish.html" title="Sort by this column">Attachment</a> </th>
			<th class="foswikiTableCol2"> <a title="Sort by this column" href="../PublishPlugin/publish.html" rel="nofollow">Action</a> </th>
			<th class="foswikiTableCol3"> <a href="../PublishPlugin/publish.html" rel="nofollow" title="Sort by this column">Size</a> </th>
			<th class="foswikiTableCol4"> <a rel="nofollow" href="../PublishPlugin/publish.html" title="Sort by this column">Date</a> </th>
			<th class="foswikiTableCol5"> <a href="../PublishPlugin/publish.html" rel="nofollow" title="Sort by this column">Who</a> </th>
			<th class="foswikiTableCol6 foswikiLastCol"> <a href="../PublishPlugin/publish.html" rel="nofollow" title="Sort by this column">Comment</a> </th>
		</tr>
	</thead>
	<tbody>
		<tr class="foswikiTableEven foswikiTableRowdataBgSorted0 foswikiTableRowdataBg0">
			<td class="foswikiTableCol0 foswikiFirstCol"> <span class='foswikiIcon'><img src="../System/DocumentGraphics.attachments/doc.png" alt="Industry-FDA-Academia_Graphics_Working_Group_Meeting_Minutes_April_27__2010.doc" height="16" width="16"></span><span class="foswikiHidden">doc</span> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol1"> <a href="SafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes.attachments/Industry-FDA-Academia_Graphics_Working_Group_Meeting_Minutes_April_27__2010.doc"><noautolink>Industry-FDA-Academia_Graphics_Working_Group_Meeting_Minutes_April_27__2010.doc</noautolink></a> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol2"> <a href="SafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes.html" rel="nofollow" title="change, update, previous revisions, move, delete...">manage</a> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol3" style="text-align:right"> 40 K </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol4"> <span class="foswikiNoBreak">02 Jun 2010 - 13:32</span> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol5"> <a href="../Main/UnknownUser.html">UnknownUser</a> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol6 foswikiLastCol"> Meeting Minutes from the working group teleconference on April 27, 2010 </td>
		</tr>
		<tr class="foswikiTableOdd foswikiTableRowdataBgSorted0 foswikiTableRowdataBg0">
			<td class="foswikiTableCol0 foswikiFirstCol"> <span class='foswikiIcon'><img width="16" src="../System/DocumentGraphics.attachments/doc.png" height="16" alt="Industry-FDA-Academia_Graphics_Working_Group_Meeting_Minutes_February_26__2010.doc"></span><span class="foswikiHidden">doc</span> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol1"> <a href="SafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes.attachments/Industry-FDA-Academia_Graphics_Working_Group_Meeting_Minutes_February_26__2010.doc"><noautolink>Industry-FDA-Academia_Graphics_Working_Group_Meeting_Minutes_February_26__2010.doc</noautolink></a> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol2"> <a title="change, update, previous revisions, move, delete..." rel="nofollow" href="SafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes.html">manage</a> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol3" style="text-align:right"> 35 K </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol4"> <span class="foswikiNoBreak">02 Jun 2010 - 13:35</span> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol5"> <a href="../Main/UnknownUser.html">UnknownUser</a> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol6 foswikiLastCol"> Meeting Minutes from the working group teleconference on February 26, 2010 </td>
		</tr>
		<tr class="foswikiTableEven foswikiTableRowdataBgSorted0 foswikiTableRowdataBg0">
			<td class="foswikiTableCol0 foswikiFirstCol"> <span class='foswikiIcon'><img width="16" alt="Industry-FDA-Academia_Graphics_Working_Group_Meeting_Minutes_March_18__2010.doc" height="16" src="../System/DocumentGraphics.attachments/doc.png"></span><span class="foswikiHidden">doc</span> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol1"> <a href="SafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes.attachments/Industry-FDA-Academia_Graphics_Working_Group_Meeting_Minutes_March_18__2010.doc"><noautolink>Industry-FDA-Academia_Graphics_Working_Group_Meeting_Minutes_March_18__2010.doc</noautolink></a> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol2"> <a title="change, update, previous revisions, move, delete..." href="SafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes.html" rel="nofollow">manage</a> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol3" style="text-align:right"> 49 K </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol4"> <span class="foswikiNoBreak">02 Jun 2010 - 13:32</span> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol5"> <a href="../Main/UnknownUser.html">UnknownUser</a> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol6 foswikiLastCol"> Meeting Minutes from the working group teleconference on March 18, 2010 </td>
		</tr>
		<tr class="foswikiTableOdd foswikiTableRowdataBgSorted0 foswikiTableRowdataBg0">
			<td class="foswikiTableCol0 foswikiFirstCol"> <span class='foswikiIcon'><img height="16" alt="Industry-FDA-Academia_Graphics_Working_Group_Meeting_Minutes_May_19__2010.doc" src="../System/DocumentGraphics.attachments/doc.png" width="16"></span><span class="foswikiHidden">doc</span> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol1"> <a href="SafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes.attachments/Industry-FDA-Academia_Graphics_Working_Group_Meeting_Minutes_May_19__2010.doc"><noautolink>Industry-FDA-Academia_Graphics_Working_Group_Meeting_Minutes_May_19__2010.doc</noautolink></a> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol2"> <a title="change, update, previous revisions, move, delete..." rel="nofollow" href="SafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes.html">manage</a> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol3" style="text-align:right"> 57 K </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol4"> <span class="foswikiNoBreak">02 Jun 2010 - 13:29</span> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol5"> <a href="../Main/UnknownUser.html">UnknownUser</a> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol6 foswikiLastCol"> Meeting Minutes from the working group teleconference on May 19, 2010 </td>
		</tr>
		<tr class="foswikiTableEven foswikiTableRowdataBgSorted0 foswikiTableRowdataBg0">
			<td class="foswikiTableCol0 foswikiFirstCol foswikiLast"> <span class='foswikiIcon'><img width="16" alt="PhRMA-FDA-Academia_Graphics_Working_Group_Meeting_Minutes_January_21__2010Draftl.doc" height="16" src="../System/DocumentGraphics.attachments/doc.png"></span><span class="foswikiHidden">doc</span> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol1 foswikiLast"> <a href="SafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes.attachments/PhRMA-FDA-Academia_Graphics_Working_Group_Meeting_Minutes_January_21__2010Draftl.doc"><noautolink>PhRMA-FDA-Academia_Graphics_Working_Group_Meeting_Minutes_January_21__2010Draftl.doc</noautolink></a> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol2 foswikiLast"> <a title="change, update, previous revisions, move, delete..." href="SafetyGraphicsMeetingMinutes.html" rel="nofollow">manage</a> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol3 foswikiLast" style="text-align:right"> 58 K </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol4 foswikiLast"> <span class="foswikiNoBreak">02 Jun 2010 - 13:36</span> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol5 foswikiLast"> <a href="../Main/UnknownUser.html">UnknownUser</a> </td>
			<td class="foswikiTableCol6 foswikiLastCol foswikiLast"> Meeting Minutes from the working group teleconference on January 21, 2010 </td>
		</tr>
	</tbody></table>
</div></div></div>
</body>